Hello everybody and welcome back.
So we're going to have a look at basic lighting we can't see anything in our room at the moment.
Now I've put a roof on.
If you were clever enough not to put a roof on yet you'll still be able to see your room obviously.
So what do we need to do in terms of lighting.
Well the first thing I'm going to do is notice that I didn't name my roof roof.
I do apologize for doing that slap me on the wrists and pull up parts of the building as well.
So we've got all four walls.
Okay.
So all of that is in the right place.
Lighting.
So once again we're going to play something in our scene.
We're going to go to lights and we can see here we've got a selection of five different light types
we've got a directional light appoint spot rect and sky.
Now any points of course if you're curious you can go ahead and click on the little icon.
They'll take you to the documentation directional light and skylights are already set up in our scene
we will manipulate the directional light in the moment because I want a shadow from this door on our
floor and we're not going to get that if the sun is facing in a different direction.
Okay.
Spotlight and Point Light.
Well let's drag one into this corner and drag another over here and we see that they're very similar
in terms of how much lights they produce only the fact that the spotlight is cut down and facing the
floor.
Now that is really useful to know because this is going to be great for Ford and being able to focus
on things.
This is gonna be great for general lighting.
You might not like the color that's already there and you'll never guess what.
Yes.
Over in the details tab you can change that.
So we go and scroll down we start off with our intensity basically how bright it is.
So you can add subtle lighting to a scene.
In fact you could probably animate this and make a blinking lights.
How about that spooky scene.
Excellent.
I'm going to set that to let's say 20 for the moment.
It's a slightly brighter than this light over here.
This point light source and attenuation radius.
So how much does this affect.
I'll see now the reason why it does this.
Because you're probably thinking to yourself Well hang on a minute lights does attenuate but that's
just because it spreads out and gets less and less as it gets further and further away.
Well with the game engine you don't necessarily want lights interfering outside of a certain radius.
We've already seen that lights can leak through corners.
Well if you've just got a huge attenuation radius you can end up with a light in one part of your scene
affecting the lighting in another.
So being able to control how far that light can reach is pretty awesome.
We've got an inner cone angle and outer cone angle that you can play with to get a tighter or looser
spot and you can play with all of these settings and see what you come up with.
I've skipped over light color.
Here we go.
So we can end up with a purple light.
We go ahead and click Okay.
OK.
That might be pink rather than purple.
I was aiming for purple and missed horribly.
There we go.
There's our purple and that's more like a blue.
OK.
You can argue about what color Eva is later on but you can see here we can adjust and you will find
that some colors are naturally darker even though they're the same brightness or intensity as others.
And a nice warm lamp here would be somewhere around this area I should imagine.
That's correct.
Okay yes.
That's a nice warm color.
And of course now we've got some lighting in our room so clicking the build button is essential.
Lighting needs to be rebuilt.
And this is baking our lighting into our scene.
It's incredibly useful for that to happen.
The scene will look different afterwards as well.
And when we press play we'll be able to walk around our scene and look we can actually see in that area
there is incredibly bright.
Now one of the things to bear in mind of course is even though that's incredibly bright it's not coming
from anywhere.
So this is a great example where you might want to go ahead and we've got a spotlight here does seem
to be coming out of nowhere but it's potentially something you could put closer to the wall to make
it look like it's a down light could do that.
And then of course you can go ahead grab all account a cylinder.
Yet we can grab a cylinder that's going to be absolutely massive and it's taken a big chunk.
Here we go.
But now I can go down to my settings here.
It's not gonna be two meters that's set it maybe 30 centimetres in height outer radius of maybe a radius
of 10 that'll make it 20.
And then we can just drag that towards where the lamp would be and again lining things up.
If you're struggling you can go to another view.
But if we put these next to one another we've basically produced ourselves a war lamp pretty awesome
Hey doing that now when we go ahead I'm going to have the press build again.
The reason for that is whenever you put another object into your scene when it comes to lighting you're
going to have to rebuild your lighting.
Now what does he have.
Don't just do it every single time unless you need to see the effects.
But here we go.
We can now see that that's off center.
I need to move it again.
Okay.
Pay attention stencils thing that's not necessarily something that's.
These views are always going to help you out with.
But we could certainly zoomed in here and seen our lights and our torch itself or this little block
that we've created to emulate it weren't quite aligned with one another.
So we can line them we can build on lighting back again.
Going to make that full screen going to take a while to do a calm play whilst it's doing this.
Now you will find that building your lighting or streaming of textures and other things like that can
be a real bugbear when it comes to unreal to be careful.
And we can see here probably still need a bit more tweaking.
I might even put a cone coming out so it looks more like a lamp itself.
So but anyway our rooms now let's up and my small challenge to you is to go ahead and add some lighting
to your scene perhaps even add in a few lamps made out of just BSP is just as place holders.
Now of course we don't want to leave it it's just a cylinder brush.
We want to make sure to pull that douses roughly in the right place and going to build as well but I'm
going to call this a lamp.
The great thing of course is if we put them into one space we can then duplicate things together.
So let's go ahead.
I'm going to make a new folder within my building and I'm going to call it lighting.
I've nested the wrong thing incisors move building back up and lighting into building and then move
my cylinder brush into lighting and call it down might
and then I've got my point light source as well.
And indeed.
OK cool that down lights I am going to cool that down light rather than lighting.
So I'm going to click on that.
There we go down lights and I'm going to call this I've tracked the wrong lights.
Here we got go spotlights here.
This is gonna be all down lights.
Bring this up.
We can see some type spotlights spring in there.
The point light is just parts of the building at the moment.
It's not signed to anything but there we go we've got our down lights in here over here in the corner.
We can select both of them and we can make a duplicate because we've got things aligned as they need
to be now so I can duplicate that and I'm gonna pop it all the way over here.
It's gonna bring it's out only has to be rough.
There we go.
So the sensors definitely out and over the scene.
Yep we can see that I'm going to build my lighting press play and make sure that works.
So this is a good example of making sure when you put things together they're named correctly and that
does mean that you're able to very easily copy things then building it quickly and checking we can see
here that it's not out of the wall far enough.
I didn't bring it out far enough.
That's annoying but it's just something we have to go through and sort out.
Remember you can go ahead hold down shift and select them both in the outline.
And then I can drag that forward.
That looks a bit more like it.
Going to click Build and just see what it looks like.
Get rid of that.
Yes.
That looks much better.
Now of course this is just place holders don't get too hung up on them.
Excellent.
Really looking forward to see how you've decided to light your room.
Have you gone all psychedelic have you gone a bit more neutral.
Did you add any actual actual lamps as well to share screenshots of how you've set up your lighting
in your scene over in the discussions.
Looking forward to seeing it and I'll see you all in the next lecture.
Take care.